Just like you,
there are thousands,
I think tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands, maybe
millions of people around
the world taking a stand
to be part of an
environmentally sustainable
and spiritually fulfilling
and socially just future.
And so with this stand, we're
actually saying to the world
that we're agents of change.
We're stepping into a phenomenon
which we've seen on screen,
haven't we?
It's sweeping around the world
and we're joining into it.
We're joining our
hearts into it,
we're joining our
action into it.
And so thank you for this.
And then together let's
look at what it takes
for us to find our next steps.
Yeah.
And we have a couple of
ideas to share with you.
And we'd like to do this.
-Yeah.
Yes.
We'll do that together.
So to be able to
stay, to sustain
that stand, that
commitment, we need to look
at where do we go from here.
And we have a few suggestions.
But I think one of the very
big powers of this symposium
is that's not prescriptive.
It's just opening up
possibilities to you.
And that we trust
your own genius.
But a few things that we know
has worked for us as helpful
is first of all, a way
to stay in your stand
and sustain it is to stay awake.
And it sounds easy.
Stay awake.
Oh, yeah.
I can stay awake.
Well, it's really easy
to go back to sleep.
And so you may find when
you get into reflection
place of where do-- how
am I going to stay awake?
For me, it's doing this.
The other one is
getting educated.
And that sounds pretty dry.
But it's not.
It's about being just curious.
And I've seen you
throughout the symposium
and how you have just
leaned into everything.
It's that kind of curiosity
in all the areas--
environmental sustainability,
social justice,
as well as spiritual
fulfillment.
So if we stay awake,
if we get educated,
what about get connected?
You know, because when we're
connected with each other,
it helps to stay awake.
Then we've got the buddies with
whom we can get more educated.
And so it could be that we're
already involved in a group.
We're already involved
in a community,
a community of practice maybe.
A community sharing
the common practice
of speaking this new
conversation into the world.
That's exactly
what the community
of awakening the dreamer is.
So it might be you're
already involved
in a community like that.
It could be that the
possibility of joining
into this larger
worldwide community we've
been sharing about.
And it might be that
it's time to join
something you're aware of in
your own neighborhood now.
But the power of being connected
is really important for us.
And then the fourth
point we had was to
just to think about
communicating.
As Anita says, when
she communicates
she is spreading this
conversation in the world.
And it might be that you
could take something as simple
as the wombat.
Take the wombat video and just
post that to your friends.
It could be that you
choose to learn to be
able to share this symposium.
And we'll be able
to tell you how
to take that option as well.
In fact, all of you can
actually download-- even today--
download all the materials
we're sharing with you
and the instructions on how
to run an event like this
and do it anyway.
OK?
So, you know, that's about
communicating into the world.
And that's the fourth
idea that seems
so relevant to us staying
powerfully in our stand
and in action.
So as I said, this
is not prescriptive.
We're not gonna tell
you, this is what you do.
We really do trust your genius.
And at the same time, we
want to give you a way
to look at, where do you start?
Where does all this action,
both the being and the doing,
where does that happen?
And so I want to
start with I or you.
So the I. There are many things
you can do as an individual.
You've already talked
about some of them.
Living more lightly on the
planet by changing the way
you eat.
Paying attention to how
things are packaged.
Just consuming less in general.
Changing your transportation.
All sorts of things
that you can do
and that you may
already be doing.
Then there's this other
area that's very important.
This is the community.
With your family,
friends, neighbors,
religious and social
groups, what can you bring?
What conversations or projects
could you introduce there?
How can you support them
in getting involved?
If we're interested in changing
the dream of the modern world,
we also need to
consider the larger
social institutions--
governments,
educational systems.
All those kinds of
things we're looking
at that we need to unpack too.
So include those
arenas in thinking
about what you want to do.
And what we're going for is for
this new dream, this world that
is environmentally
sustainable, spiritually
fulfilling, and socially just.
So recognize yourself
and celebrate
what's happening here.
And push yourself.
As we say, blessed
unrest to do more.
But understand if we want
change to happen out here,
if this is the
thing that we want
to have happen in the
culture in the world,
it's going to require
some being and doing
at all those different levels.
And so the question is yours
and the choice is yours.
So what I'm handing out
to you now is a matrix.
And you might think of this
almost as the landscape
in which we can take action.
So it's got these three
distinctions here.
What can I do individually?
What can I do in community?
And what can I do at the
level of the institutions
or the systems of power
in the place where I live?
And then across the top you can
see we've got our three lenses.
We've got the environmental,
spiritual, and social concern.
Imagine that as the landscape
in which you might find
your unique talents,
experience, and your passion
for the world coinciding
with what you see
is needed in the
world right now.
Imagine that's
what's happening now.
These forces are running
together in each of us
here for us to find where
our contribution can be.
And it might be
somewhere on this map.
Let's see if you
can find three--
maybe more, but
certainly three-- actions
that you can see you
can take as of now.
I think that when historians
look back at this time,
they will see it as the most
remarkable moment in all
of human history, the pivotal
time when we as a human family
took it upon ourselves
to summon the will
to make the changes that altered
the course of history forever.
OK, Lynn, you might say.
That is so huge, so beyond what
I, as one little individual,
can do.
Where do I fit in?
Where do I start?
Well, those are all
great questions.
Here's what I would say.
Start where you are right now
and who you are right now.
Pick five actions that you are
going to be committed to taking
out of this experience.
I'm going to give you just a
few ideas to get you started,
but the actions you
come up with will be way
more powerful than anything.
You can come up
with your own as you
just look at your
life, your work,
what you're passionate about.
For example, remember
the part where
it was said that
people in the US
throw away more than 600
million plastic bottles
every single day.
That was just stunning to me.
That was a show stopper.
When I heard that, I
couldn't even believe it.
Are you willing, perhaps,
to be one of the people
who maybe never again uses
another plastic water bottle
or certainly thinks about
it before you purchase one?
Maybe you would refill
your bottle instead.
Think about that.
Think about the
last time, if ever,
you let your voice be heard by
you're elected representatives.
Are you willing to speak
out to your government about
the issues that you care about?
There has never
been a more critical
time than now to exercise
the muscle of our democracy.
Look at how you use your money.
Because our spending
habits are driving
the dream of the modern world,
the dream we don't want.
How much stuff do
you really need?
Before you buy something, look
at how and where it's made.
Look at where you're investing.
Think about using your
money to support the causes
you really believe in.
Look and see where in your
life you shut people out,
people who may be
a different color
or people who speak
another language
or follow other faiths.
People you think are too old
or too young or too different
from you.
And go out of your way to
include them in your life.
Communicate,
communicate, communicate,
then communicate some more.
Tell at least five people
about this experience,
what you learned here.
Invite them to
participate as well.
Gather a group to do
this experience together.
Tell your online
friends on Facebook.
Get the word out.
It will keep you awake and
deepen your own commitment
to share it with other people.
We cannot do this alone.
And the good news
is, we don't have to.
Together we are a genius.
Now I bet there's
some great ideas here.
And so what we'd
love you to do now
is, again, just turn to your
friends on the table, please.
And we need you to just share
three of the ideas you've got.
The power of you
saying it in words
to other people may be
inviting their help,
if only to witness
you, is really great.
So let's turn to that
now, if you would.
Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
We'd like to hear just a couple
of shares of what are some
of the things that you have
committed to, that you put down
and shared with your
people at your table.
Yes?
We don't compost because we
don't have a yard or any place
to put the compost.
But I have several friends
in town with large homes
and backyards who do compost.
So my next project set up
composting for our places
and just arrange
to do it with them.
I have a great passion for
how we treat people in prisons.
And I want to see not prison
reform, but present revolution.
So that we treat people like
they're valuable resources.
And people who make mistakes,
we figure out what to do.
I'm taking my energy into the
area of helping people open
their hearts and keep it open.
On a macro level, it's
about consuming less.
It's not necessarily
about recycling more.
So my commitment is to not bring
any new plastic into my house.
[MUSIC PLAYING]